so welcome to session 1 57 on necklace
ken and localisation I think it's
probably about that time on this
Thursday afternoon where you're all
thinking of going to the beer bash so
we'll try to make this short and sweet
my name is Kristin I work in the
localisation integration group here at
Apple in just a couple minutes we're
going to bring my cup here one of our
engineers and he's going to discuss some
of the api's that we developed and how
to make your software work well for
localization but before we do that I
want to say just a couple of words on
why we think localisation is actually a
very strategic thing it something you
should consider it for all of your
products so now Apple has always
considered localization very strategic
and very important to our business and
that first line up there on that slide
says all you really need to hear about
why that is it makes it very obvious
approximately one-half of apples apples
computers are sold outside the US that's
fifty percent of course of the market
for your applications as well so now
there's no way we can position ourselves
in the market this way and so all these
matters overseas without significant
investment in a high quality
localization of our system software in
fact this is so important to us that we
do we go to great lengths to deliver our
operating system software and cpu
software it virtually simultaneously
with the US product now with necklace 10
we want to do this even better and we
put some capabilities in our in our
operating system that should make this
easier both for us and for you so now
the bad news with localization on the
Macintosh has always been that the vos
was not originally developed as a
multilingual system so if you had some
resources in the resource Florrick of
your application in general they would
be you know only in one language and
moreover the resources were in the same
file is executable they were mixed
together with the executable on the same
file so that's what it's generally meant
was it each different localization of
your application would involve multiple
independent versions of that application
so the result often is that localizing
your software means multiple products
for you that means multiple products you
up to you to ship manufacturer track etc
etc now for a large company like Apple
that's very feasible for some of you
perhaps not so feasible
so the good news is that OS 10 now
introduces some multilingual to floor
directly into the system so it is now
possible to fully separate your
executables from your resource resources
in a chai so you can separate those
those two things and this means you can
seamlessly consolidate in one package in
one executable multiple localizations of
a particular application so you can do
this very seamlessly as mike is going to
describe to you now this just want to
highlight this opens up a couple of very
exciting possibilities so for example
multiple localizations can now be
packaged and included in a single
product which cuts down significantly on
the overhead in delivering alkalis
product as well alternatively a language
could add on for your app can be easily
packaged and delivered at say a web
download and this allows you some
flexibility and viewing your scheduling
around localization and scheduling you
know visa VA your us product so these
sorts of things or possibilities
generated by these leave API so these
capabilities in EOS now as you can see
we're very excited ourselves to use
these these capabilities within our own
products and we want to encourage all of
you to do that as well in your products
so to do that let's get straight to the
fun stuff and have them might come up
here and give some demonstrations from
the end describe these technologies to
you so mike is my mic live okay there it
is so I want to talk to you just a bit
about localization on OS 10 and what
we're going to cover is basically what
you need to be thinking of to produce an
application that's localizable and then
how the core foundation frameworks help
you in your code to deal with these
issues and to build an application which
is localizable and then finally we're
going to look a little bit about how
project builder supports this in the
development cycle so okay first of all
let's look a little bit about delivering
localized application so the old way
a separate application for each language
right you have to have multiple SK
Hughes multiple boxes packaging all this
stuff and you also then if you want to
have multiple languages supported have
to have multiple copies of that app on
the system so it's not very good for a
multi-user situation where you might
have some people using your application
with you know who want to run in one
language and some other people who want
to run it another what we want to move
towards is one of the two second
possibilities here either you
simultaneously ship your application
that contains all the localizations
together now this would be ideal but we
recognize that it's not always totally
practical not everybody can spend the
effort you know to actually produce all
the localizations before they actually
can sell one of them so we don't force
you to do this but it's totally possible
the other option is you just ship
localizations as you finish them after
you ship the main app but all they are
is add-ons it's not a whole nother copy
of the application and the installation
and merging the new localizations into
the app that the user already has now
what I want to demo first if we get the
demo machine up on the display is just
you know what it means for an
application to be multiple localized
you've probably seen this panel and a
few other talks this is the
international preferences panel and this
list here is basically for me the person
who's logged into this machine what's
the preferred ordering of languages for
me and okay so I might want to be
English you know primarily if I launch
an application you know we can see that
it comes up in English okay easy enough
you've probably seen that but what if i
reordered this list and say that i'd
like to see french first if it's
available
well now you know it comes up in French
when I launch this application these
preferences are per users so if you have
multiple users who use the machine they
all get their own list of ordered
languages somebody might want to see
Japanese instead the app watch it some
Japanese this is the same app recognized
right but it's just that depending on
what my preferences are it's going to
pick the localization that's appropriate
all right so that's the end of the first
demo here we go back to the slides so
all right first of all what does it mean
to be localizable localizable is
different from localized right
localizable means that it's possible to
localize this application right the
developer can easily produce a
localizable application you know they
don't have to speak any languages other
than their native language they can
still produce an application that can be
translated and that's what you should be
shooting for as a developer you should
build an application that could be
translated even if you don't plan to do
it right now because later you might
want to do that and if it's localizable
it'll be very easy to do that you won't
have to rev your code at all you just
have to send your resources off to some
translator who will then translate it
into the target language send it back to
you you put it in the half and it all
just works what the developer has to be
aware of is not necessarily issues
specific to any language or region but
just general issues that have to do with
localize ability so you want to have
your code deal with strings in a way
that's flexible enough that it's going
to work for springs in any language car
stars no good right you want to use
something else will get into how that is
supported in core foundation you want to
look at the same issue with regard to
file formats you know don't use a key in
your file format if you can help it use
something that can represent more
languages
you want to deal with text input issues
so not all languages are as simple and
easy to type as English typing Japanese
can be very complex because there are so
many different characters and you're not
going to have a keyboard with 50,000
characters on it so you have to have
some sort of input method that lets
users type in arbitrarily complex
languages you also have to be aware of
things like differing formats for dates
and numbers and so on and so forth and
even potentially differing formats of
various hardware standards that are
available in different areas of the
world and then finally and what people
always you know think about sort of
first when you think about localization
is you have to make sure that all of
your interface and all the other
resources that might be different for
different languages can be all right
well let's look at how core foundation
actually helps you to achieve this and
we won't go through all of the things
that I just listed that will cover most
of them here some of the main classes
i'll call them even though they're not
really in core foundation which help you
with this sort of thing our CF string a
CF character set those help you deal
with strings in a way that will not
limit you to a particular script see if
property list and CF XML parser these
are options for file formats that will
be totally international I zabal and
then see a bundle which is really a very
central piece of the system on Mac OS 10
and in addition to all the other things
that it does it helps make sure that
you're going to get the right versions
of your localizable resources when the
user runs your application if you use
the F bundle properly you won't have to
worry about the users preferred language
order it will all just work
so what about strings CF string should
be used as much as you possibly can in
your app all right use it instead of
karst are everywhere your internal
representations avoid converting it to
car stars or Pascal strings whenever you
can see s strings or Unicode strings so
Unicode can represent text in almost any
language in the world right maybe any
language not all gave almost any
language at least and when you do have
to actually deal with other character
encodings see a string also provides
conversion facilities so okay here's
what here are a few tips for dealing
with strings first of all the unicode
spec is fairly complicated and to
correctly handle unicode strings there
are a lot of details unless this is your
domain of expertise you probably don't
want to get involved in these details so
let's see if string do it okay avoid
going through a string character by
character in unicode there's almost
always an infinite number of ways that
basically the same semantic content
could be represented in a string there's
different you know forms you can use
that basically you know don't go through
character by character doing comparisons
because it's not going to necessarily be
the right thing so use built-in
character sets to see a character set
class allows you to test for membership
in certain sets there are a bunch of
predefined set so you can say you know
is this particular character a letter as
the number is that white space
punctuation is a diacritic mark there's
all kinds of built-in sets if you need
to figure out for a particular character
or sort of what class this character is
in you can use the xterra curse at you
can also use the built-in support for
collation and comparison so too do you
know locale correct sorting or string
comparison remember I said that there's
various different ways that you could
represent the same string in Unicode if
you compare them bite for bite
two strings that are really the same
semantic content might look different if
you use the comparison functions in in
core foundation they should look to say
it and also if you're looking for
substrings is it sort of a sub point of
the other hole you know comparison and
and a collation thing if you're looking
for substrings within a bigger string
use the api's and core foundations now
unfortunately not every API in the world
is based on CF string not even every API
in Mac OS 10 currently housed es strings
API is to deal with it so sometimes
you're going to have to convert to some
other encoding CF stirring provides the
facility to convert back and forth we
think are stars or store 255 NCS strings
but this is an area where you're going
to have to kind of pay attention right
not every encoding can support all of
the characters in Unicode if you know a
few could support all the characters in
Unicode you wouldn't need Unicode so if
you're going to be converting to some
encoding you have to be aware that a
particular CF string might have stuff in
it that just cannot be converted to a
particular encoding in areas where you
have to do these conversions just make
sure that you're aware of these issues
so here's a few selective methods for CF
string and CF character set you can
create a string from bites of a
particular encoding so that's the way
that if you were had a car star that you
knew within a particular coding or maybe
a 30 to 55 or whatever you can create a
CF string from that converting the
screen whatever encoding it's in into
the internal representation now it's not
always going to blow the thing up into
full Unicode but conceptually you can
think of it that way the opposite of
that is CF string get bites you can use
that to extract a representation of a CF
string in a given encoding and this is
one because not all coatings can
represent all strings that might fail
and you have various options too
figure that out you can compare strings
with CF string compare with options you
can find substrings with CF string find
with options and then I mentioned
character sets a little bit earlier you
can get the predefined ones using CF
character set get predefined there are a
bunch of constants in the header file
for that class which basically lists the
various predefined sets you can ask for
and then once you have a character set
you can test whether any individual
character is a member of that set with
the cs character set is character
members ok so file formats again the
same sort of issues with strings you
don't want to take a file format that's
not rich enough to express international
context so don't tie yourself to limited
screen encodings and okay while I'm
mentioning it don't tie yourself to a
specific platform this is mostly sort of
ending in this issues right so make sure
that you take that into account as well
use a standard format if it's
appropriate so XML is a standard format
it's a particularly good choice here
because XML is either stored in Unicode
or in utf-8 which is a another
representation of this just as rich as
Unicode and core foundation has support
for dealing with XML for simple and
small sets of data you can use CF
property lists an extremely simple API
for serializing and deserialising graphs
of sort of data objects like
dictionaries and arrays and strings and
for more complex stuff you can use the
CF XML parser which is a full XML parser
that you can use to write xml of
whatever format you want so here's a
couple of examples the property list
stuff is very simple you just hand it a
data object and it'll give you back
about the the original graph of objects
that use to create it in the first place
you can then take that graph of objects
and hand it to see a property list
create xml and it will hand you back a
data with the xml in it
the parser these are the entry points
for the simple entry points for the XML
parser there's lots of options there's
also a more complex API we're not going
to get into that but just so you know
core foundation does have support for
XML parsing okay this doesn't really
relate to core foundation so much but
it's another big issue right you need to
deal with text input and the way that
you deal with text input is actually a
little bit different for the carbon and
the Coco's back in carbon applications
well all the controls are pretty much
ready to go so if you're using
appearance controls for those things you
should be you should be fine for larger
text instead of using the older text
edit manager consider using the
multilingual text edit manager which is
unicode based and can deal with these
things amount and then also can add more
than 32 k of text in it and if you're
writing your own text system you can
integrate with the text services manager
which is basically the sort of lower
level input management API for carbon on
the cocoa side well the cocoa text
system is used for all of the text
growing in cocoa and the cocoa text
system is fully unicode aware and it
also it automatically integrates with
the text services manager to do input
management and so basically for
ninety-nine percent of your cocoa needs
just use the tax system if you're
writing your own tech system for
whatever reason you can implement the
text input protocols those automatically
integrate with TSM and they allow you to
if you're doing your own text entry
management take full advantage of the
input management facilities okay
so here's what we're going to spend a
fair amount of time is talking about
resources and the bundles resources well
okay the term is a little bit overloaded
these days resources and we talk about
resources on Mac os10 there's kind of
two kinds there's bundle resources which
you just basically files that live
inside of the bundle and there's
resource manager resources which are the
traditional sort of mac OS 9 resources
CF bundle provides a way to deal with
both of these things and it also
provides the structure for dealing with
localization and it knows the proper way
to search for resources that may be
locale specific inside of a bundle the
localized resources are segregated into
their own areas we call elkridge folders
will actually see some of that in a
moment I want to talk a little bit about
the difference between regions and
languages a region actually includes
both a language and a location right so
there's the English that we speak here
in the United States there's the English
that they speak in England there's the
French that is spoken in France and
there's the French the spoken in Canada
we can localize by region so you can
actually provide different variants for
French Canadian and for branch French or
you can just do it by language or you
can do it by a combination so let's say
that for the most part all your
resources are the same whether people
are in Canada or in France but there's a
small subset that actually have to be
specific you can put most of them into
language localization areas but put just
a small set into the the regional areas
and we'll take care of all that for you
oh I should mention the region names are
actually the iso standard region names
so like en underbar you laughs and then
so on so forth language names mostly for
compatibility reasons
our openstep style language names which
are typically you know english english
versions of language names like English
French Japanese so it's German not
deutsch even though if you were going to
display it in the UI it would be deutsch
I'm not going to go through this slide
in any great detail you can find this
picture in the system overview manual if
you want to go through it in detail my
point for showing this slide is just to
impress upon you that you're better off
letting see a bundle finding the
resources for you because otherwise
these are the places that you have to
look and the steps you have to go
through to make sure that you're going
to get the right version for the users
preferences so I don't know if this is
readable at all from back there but I
mean basically we're going to go out and
look in all the appropriate places for
these resources and the first place we
find it that's one that we're going to
use all right I spoke a little bit about
the difference between resource
management resources and bundle
resources just to hit on that again the
resource manager resources the ones that
are typically found in the resource Fork
of an application on Mac OS 9 bundle
resources on the other hand or just
files that go inside your app wrapper
and as I mentioned see a bundle deals
with both of these and both of them can
be either global or localized so
resource manager resources we're trying
to get away from relying on the resource
fork because we want to be vol format
independent and also there's only one
resource fork in your applications that
we need several places to be able to
throw these resources so that you can
have multiple localizations so instead
we put resource manager resources into
the data for it's the same format that
used to find in the resource fork it's
just in the data port of separate files
that go inside the app rapper so the
resource manager resources are actually
stored in files which are themselves
bundle resources of the bundle
we separate out the Resource Manager
resources that don't need to be
localized from the ones that do so you
don't have to ship multiple copies of
the stuff that doesn't change only
multiple copies of the stuff that does
change now CF bundle has API to open the
resource manager resource Forks and put
them onto the chain the resource chain
in carbon and it correctly deals with
opening both the global and the
localized resources to the localized
ones that correctly feels with finding
the right version for this user's
preferences carbon automatically calls
this API when your app launches for your
application so you don't have to worry
about that just like on Mac OS 9 your
resource fork was already open for you
when your app started but for frameworks
or for plugins you can use this bundle
API to cause the frameworks or the
plugins Resource Manager resources to be
added to the carbon resource chain so
bundle resources again just files inside
the bundle the API on CF bundle
basically you ask for resource by name
we give you back the Earl of that
resource where it resides inside the
bundle don't go groping around inside
the bundle to try to find them
yourselves because again that picture
very complex once you've found the Earl
that locates this resource inside the
bundle you use whatever API is
appropriate for the kind of file that
you're looking for so you know if it's a
tiff file you're going to go off and use
a tiff library to open up that image and
and parse it if it's a you know an RTF
file you're going to go and tell you
know some RTF editor to open it or
whatever now there's one kind of bundled
resource that's handled kind especially
by CF bundle and that strings files and
I want to kind of spend a little time
talking about strings files because for
the the carbon folks in the room this is
I think one of the first kind of bundle
resources that you might want to look at
moving some of your resource manager
resources to use instead
if you're using Resource Manager
resources to do thrinng localization I
guess there's the fcr number resources
and so forth you know okay fine but
those are not necessarily the easiest
things in the world to maintain and you
have to compile them with res and all
this other stuff string files provide a
nice easy way to do that same thing and
so I anticipate that you know carbon
developers if they want to get started
using some bundle resources instead this
might be the first thing that you're
going to do any user visible strings
obviously should be localizable and
strings files are basically key value
pairs stored in Unicode in a plain text
file well at the plane unicode text file
inside your bundle and CF bundle
actually have specific API that you can
use to locate these strings files open
them up cash their contents fetch
strings out of them for the particular
localization that's appropriate the
developer tools also have support for
helping you can even generate these
strings files just from your code so
there's a command-line tool called Jen
strings in DP for this is not integrated
into the project vulgar bank process but
it will be eventually and what is what
this tool does is it just sort of goes
through all your code looking for places
where you're looking up localized
strings and then it spits out skeleton
strings files that contain all the keys
that you're ever going to look for in
your code you go in and just fill in the
values oh you know what one more thing I
want to mention with the strings files
CF string has sort of print app like API
so you can use format strings and format
arguments into them with strings files
we actually have support and with GS
string itself we have support for
argument reordering so if you have two
arguments that in English are in you
know this order but in you know Japanese
they need to be in this order no problem
that can all be done all right so here's
some of the API for CF bundle
for actually locating bundles you can
easily get hold of the bundle that
contains the application that's running
with CF bundle get main bundle if you're
a framework or a plug-in and you want to
locate the bundle for that framework or
that plug-in you can use CF bundle get
bundle with identifier you can basically
assign a unique identifier to each
bundle and then if in that in that
bundles code you can look it up by that
identifier you can make sure that you
get you know the right bundle you don't
have to know where it lives on the disk
or anything as long as you know your
code is running you know that it's
loaded it was an app and you'll be able
to find that bundle by its identifier
the info.plist of a bundle contains a
bunch of metadata we're not going to
talk too much about that but you can use
CF bundle get info dictionary to get the
whole info.plist dictionary some of the
values in the info dictionary actually
end up being localized a lot of the time
and they get localized in a separate
file called info.plist strings and you
can you see a bundle get value for info
dictionary key to look up specific
values from the info dictionary and that
API will actually look into localized
stuff first so if you have say a CF
bundle name key which is what the finder
uses or what carbon uses to display the
name of the application in the menu bar
you want that to be localized obviously
so you can you see a bundle get value
for info dictionary key to get that
string and make sure that it gets it out
of the localized data if it's there
otherwise out of the global data you can
use CF bundle copy resource Earl to find
bundle resources inside the bundle again
you just give it the name will go out
look for it inside the bundle and return
easy appropriate one CS bundle open
bundle resource files is the one that
you can use in a framework or a plug-in
to open up the resource manager resource
files inside of the bundle and then CF
copy localized string is one of these
functions that we have for specifically
dealing with these strings files you
just give it a key
and it will they'll find a string style
look that Kiev and return it to you and
these localized strings functions are
also the thing that that gen strings
tool looks for when it's automatically
generating strings files for you okay
next demo so we get the demo machine
back up on the screen I want to show
just briefly and I know that this has
been shown a couple times before so bear
with me if you've seen it what the
insides of the bundle looks like we have
a little secret shortcut here to
actually go inside of a bundle which is
usually shown opaque in the finder and
let's put that in list mode and give our
show some height to play with the only
thing that's in the top level of bundle
is typically this content directory
inside that we have the info.plist which
again is this metadata about the bundle
and there's been more info on that in
other sessions so I'm not going to go
into that and the package info which
again you may have heard some about but
we won't be talking about the actual
binary for the application lives inside
of a folder named after the platform is
supposed to run on you might have
another folder in here called Mac OS
classic which would contain the binary
for mac OS 9 if you had a separate
binary format was 9 then what we're
really interested in here is the
resources directory all the plane files
that you see in this directory those are
the global resources the ones that don't
need to be localized so I don't need to
localize the icon file for this
application it doesn't have any any text
in it and it you know doesn't need to be
localized so it sits here one that
deserves special mention perhaps is this
guy's this is the data fork file that
contains the resource manager resources
for this application which are global so
these are the ones that don't need to be
localized
now all the local buyers resources go
inside these elkridge directories that I
talked about a little bit earlier you
can see that we have four localizations
here 1 for English one for French one
for German and one for Japanese the
contents of these directories is always
identical there should always be
identical basically you need a copy of
each and every one of these localized
resources for each you know language or
region that you're localizing for so you
know we have the the credits file in
French and we have the credit file in
English and we have all the various
interface builder files we have a
standard strings file that you know it's
going to be localized this one is the
resource manager resources for this
application the localized ones so you
notice we have a copy in here and we
have a copy in here again and use the
the bundle ap is the appropriate one is
going to get open them on to your
resource chain so okay pretty simple and
oh the localized plist would also go
into the the L proj folders in a file
called info.plist strings i believe so
that's just another strings file but it
has a special name so that we know that
it's the one for the plist and it just
goes in the L prods with the rest of the
localized resources ok that's the end of
this demo you can see what the structure
of the bundle is you should never have
to mess with that project builder knows
how to build bundles and we're going to
get it to that right now so project
folder the new development environment
for Mac os10 has full support for
building bundles for building multiple
localized applications for managing all
the details that you need to have taken
care of when you're dealing with
multiple localized Mac os10 bundles so
we know how to build the bundle disk
structure you shouldn't involve yourself
in that if you can void it at all
because well you know we know how to do
that and then you shouldn't necessarily
have to also know how to do that we let
you localize the info.plist data we let
you localize your bundle resources we
let you localize your resource manager
resources all of that so project builder
has target types that represent
applications frameworks and bundles or
loadable plugins all of these basically
end up building bundles of one flavor or
another each of these targets basically
constructs the bundle automatically as
it builds and the build system knows
where to put all the various pieces then
as I think I had mentioned actually
project builder has you know full
control for managing within your
info.plist as well for the resources the
target model and project builder is that
we have these build phases and so you
know we're going to go through and for
the target we build each build phase and
so there's build phases that will
compile your source code there's build
phases for frameworks that will copy
your headers into the frameworks header
directory there's build phases that will
copy your bundle resources into the
bundle there's a build phase that will
run res or res merge on all your are or
your darts or C files and put those into
the bundle and so this is how project
builder deals with building things and
the build phases that do bundle
resources and resource manager resources
know about localization now within the
IDE we also help to enforce some of the
requirements for CF bundles one of those
requirements is that a resource has to
be either global or localizable okay you
shouldn't have a file in your L proj
directory and also have it at the top
level of the resources if you do the
global one is the only one that will be
found that seems a little backwards the
reason that's done is for performance
you're not supposed to have them both if
you do have them both first we look for
as the global one because we only have
to look in one place for that we also
make sure that whatever the development
language of your project is you'd have
to have a full set of resources for
those you should have a full set of
resources for any other regions that you
support but if you don't for a
particular resource will fall back on
the development region version and
that's why you have to have a
development regent version that means
that we'll always be able to find at
least one version of this resource and
then for the platform specific stuff we
require that there be a generic one if
you have any platform specific ones and
that's just in case say another platform
was to be supported at a later date if
you only had platform specific ones
which ones we use right you didn't
anticipate the new platform if there's a
generic one in there though we can use
that so all right let's actually look at
how this gets done in project builders
now what I have is a slightly modified
version of the simple text project that
ships as an example on ls10 and when I
say slightly modified what I've done is
I've made simple text localizable
ready okay so simple text wasn't quite
fully set up to be localizable but I've
tweaked it around a little so it is we
can see all there are files that are in
the project and these so these are the
things that are going to go you know
through res and build the resource
manager resources that simple text needs
now first let's go ahead and build this
while that's building maybe I'll point
out that I've also sort of broken up the
dot our files a little further than they
are in the in the default simple text
I've actually taken out and put in a
separate file all of the stuff that
doesn't need to be localize right okay
heck strings don't need any localization
so we put all this stuff into the global
one and this is the one that will leave
a loan all the rest of the files contain
stuff that does need to be localized and
and we'll we'll see how those get
localized in a minute looks like we're
to the link step here I'm going to
actually pull open the the sort of more
verbose build log here you can see that
we we ran Reds here on a bunch of
resource files and all of them are being
read into the simple text rsrc which
sits directly in the resources directory
of the bundle right so these are all
global resources at this point the all
the our files were merged together and
put into one dot are SRC file in the
data park all right let's prove that
this actually works
alright so here's simple text I can
bring up from the fine panel and so on
and so forth okay fine simple text has a
bug yes now okay so i have this
application now that's localizable but
it's not localized right how do I
localize it well these are the files
again that needs to be localized this
one the global stuff filed this one does
not need to be localized but this one
these these all do so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to go to the project
inspector the inspector can act on
multiple selection so you do all the
stuff in a batch and there's this
localization of platforms pull down menu
and all you really have to do here is
say okay I'd like all these to be
localized please you'll notice that they
all got disclosure triangles and what
that shows if you disclose it it shows a
list of all of the different variants
that we have for this localized resource
and so when we first make it localized
we just get English which is the
development region for this project and
that's what we start out with but the
whole point here is we want to actually
localize it so once we've made these
localizable resources we can go ahead
and add an invariant so let's say add
one for French you'll notice that for
the ones i disclose that of the french
version here initially when you add a
new region variant it starts out as a
copy of the development region so if i
open up the this file which actually
seems to contain a lot of the strings
will see that the French version is in
English right because it just copied the
English file okay now i'm not going to
make you sit here watch me my poor
command of french here so i actually had
a colleague localized this this one for
me and i have this little cheater file
and we'll go ahead and just copy the
contents out of there and go back to the
french version of localized are
and we'll just replace it save that so
now we have this version which I go up
the part that actually was localized you
can see you know it has been localized
in French okay let's build that now it
didn't build any of the codes we already
built that now if you notice though now
it's running res on some of these files
and it's putting them into the localized
rsrc of the English elkridge if doing
some more of them for the French doll
proj right as we have French versions
for everything now and then finally it's
doing the global one for the the one
that we didn't localize okay and now we
can run hopefully it'll still come up in
English because I haven't changed my
language preference ooh you know what
though I forgot to change my preference
back to english after the first demo so
ra well here it is in French all right
let's do this in the right order though
all right so you run this and it'll come
up in English actually you'll notice
that before I had left the preference
ordered Japanese French English right we
hadn't localized it into Japanese but we
have localized it in the French so it
showed up in French even though I would
have preferred Japanese if there had
been one okay so here it is in English
right we still have the fine panel it's
an a okay fine but if we go back here
and we say okay well let's make that
French instead and run it again okay
here comes in French and you'll see that
in this case just doing the strings
isn't given quite be enough we'll
probably have to go in and tweak some as
a titl resources to change them the
control sizes only get when I make this
actually fully localized to the French
but you get the idea right so that's as
easy you know as it is to actually
support this stuff in project builder
and that is the end of that demo so that
pretty much concludes the content here
all of my pointers point backwards all
of these sessions have already taken
place if you saw them good for you if
you didn't well okay maybe some of these
slides or even the video for these
presentations will be available at some
point and if they are you might take a
peek at some of them at core foundation
is a wonderful technology for dealing
with these localization issues as well
as a lot of other stuff so definitely
check out the core foundation stuff if
you want to learn about project builder
there's the project builder sessions
there's the application packaging and
document typing talk that are another
gave earlier this afternoon that deals
with other bundle issues there's the
Apple localization tools talk which was
in this room right before this talk and
then the one that isn't already over
there's the text and international
feedback session tomorrow morning so tim
holmes is the one to contact about this
technology vmail dresses there and now
i'll invite a few people to come up
hopefully they showed up or QA
you